- When starting the process of designing your microservices,
there are a few key points to consider
before you write a single line of code.
Where I have mentioned most of this already,
I want to roll it up into a clear, concise picture
and explain how your designs
should account for this material from the ground floor.
One of the first aspects you should consider
when designing microservices is your continuous integration
and continuous delivery pipelines.
Don't write any code until you have a plan
on how you will handle this task.
In my opinion, it is such an important concept
in a microservices architecture
that it honestly should be task number one.
Model a sample pipeline,
and ensure you have the most critical steps
of your STLC documented
and automated if possible.
Consider at least those tasks
that must be performed in every artifact
in your environment.
Secondly, consider spending some real time
designing your logging and tracing frameworks.
This should really be a primary function of every service,
so the code required to do this work
should be in a common library for every artifact to consume.
Consider how you will aggregate
and evaluate your logs and metrics,
and design your code to solve that need.
Consider the uses of log aggregators
and search mechanisms for those logs early on
so you can structure your data
in your logs messages appropriately.
Now, as it gets to your service code,
you really should consider leveraging domain-driven design.
You need to do some real analysis on the system as a whole
and use that knowledge
to help you define your service boundaries.
Consider how you will build your services
and what functions they will perform.
Will you leverage dedicated data services
or wrap the data access into business processes?
Should you consider moving services together
to allow for ACID transactions where you need them?
Or will you build out a strategy
based on eventual consistency?
As you build out these services,
plan for designing mechanisms to evaluate
and eventually control your latency.
Evaluate the use of non-blocking code when possible,
but consider standardizing your stack
no matter which way you go.
I know many developers may not like
to hear the term standardize,
but the reality is that the most successful teams,
when moving into a microservices architecture,
have standardized.
You can leverage a different standard
than you currently use,
but standardization will allow you to shift resources
much more easily as the business needs change.
I also encourage you to design your systems
to be asynchronous first.
By that, I mean try to create every service
as an asynchronous operation
until you prove that you need it synchronously.
This is probably contrary
to how you are currently doing things.
Having a solid plan for asynchronous activity
will not only reduce latency on your system as a whole
but will allow you to improve your skills
on these operations while reducing error rates.
Designing a microservices architecture is less about code
and more about the supporting operations and infrastructure.